NARRATOR:
Previously on Nikita:
According to the box,
each mission's authorized by Oversight.
Nikita knows
I'm a member of Oversight.
The sooner I take down Nikita,
the sooner you're safe.
You said you had a way
to get to her through Alex.
SEAN: |t belonged to your father.
-Thank you.
MADELINE:
Activate the plan immediately.
MAN:
The situation is critical.
Our entire effort,
everything we worked for...
...is in danger of being destroyed.
And why?
Because of one person.
Nikita.
She is determined...
...to bring down Division at all costs.
And she feels the quickest way to do
that is to target its sponsors.
Two of us are dead now...
[GUNFIRE]
...thanks to her.
And she won 't stop
until we join them.
I could go to the president,
request Secret Service protection.
And tell him what?
That the shadow government
that he's not even aware of...
...can't stop an assassin
that it created?
You gonna track all that sand
in here?
-l'm not the maid, you know.
-Clearly.
You know, Division doesn't
even need to kill you...
...you're doing just fine on your own.
Update on the guardians?
Your boy, Owen, ugh, lost track of
the last two somewhere near Brussels.
I'm helping him
with sat surveillance...
...it's like trying
to find a needle in a needle stack.
Mikey's on his way back here.
He thinks the guardians
are en route to the States.
To break Percy out of Division?
Their black boxes are gone,
what else is a 'roid-raging Terminator...
...gonna do with his spare time?
Speaking of mods, ahem...
...I caught our little house guest
trying to swipe my pain pills.
Thought you should know.
You know, you can stay here
as long as you want.
But if your plan
is to get high again...
...you're gonna have to do it
somewhere else.
Um....
Those are one of the things
my mom was taking.
You know, to make herself numb
and push the pain away.
The truth, ugh....
Alex, I was a part of the operation
against your family that night...
...and even I don't know the truth.
Maybe she doesn't either.
She was having an affair
with the man who killed my father.
And she is living with him
in the house that I grew up in.
Doesn't mean she was
a part of the attack or the takeover.
It doesn't matter.
You're gonna have to
find a way to let this go.
-l'm not saying let her go.
-What are you saying?
I'm saying |-- I understand.
[SIGHS]
More than you know.
Before Division...
...there was a woman
at a halfway house.
Her name was Carla.
"This is a safe place,"
she used to say.
And I remember hearing that
meant so much to me.
And then one day she left town.
No goodbye, no nothing.
What happened?
lfell to pieces...
...off the wagon,
and landed in prison.
All I remember thinking
was that she never came to visit me.
On death row, not once.
And I remember feeling like
I would never forgive her for that.
And I thought there has to be
a reason why she did what she did.
And whatever that reason was...
...I think it was supposed to help me.
You can stay here.
This is a safe place.
[COMPUTER BEEPING]
MAN:
One rogue element's not the problem.
Bruce, she won't give up.
Put it another way,
she's not the only problem.
While we're on the subject of disasters,
let's talk about Alexandra Udinov.
I seem to recall her sitting down
with us and striking a deal.
We help her take revenge
against Sergei Semak...
...she neutralizes Nikita.
Neither of which has happened.
-Whose fault is that?
-Amanda's.
Well, you're making my point.
The problem, as you say,
is deeper, systemic.
Amanda, Nikita, Alex.
What do they have in common?
-Division.
-Our problem's Division.
-Maybe we need new leadership.
-We already tried that.
Amanda was no better than Percy.
Division's grown too powerful
for anyone to run it.
No, no.
What we require here
is something more drastic.
And we all know what it is.
Clean Sweep.
You're a little late.
Really? Have you figured out
a way to tell time down here?
I would have thought
after conferring with your asset...
...that you'd come straight down.
There's nothing you told Fletcher
you didn't want me to hear.
His prediction is
you're planning an escape.
Which we both know is impossible.
"Impossible" is a word found
only in the dictionary of fools.
You're a little tall
to be quoting Napoleon.
His exile did last nearly a year
and, uh, you're right, I'm not that patient.
Well, take a look around, Percy.
There is no way out of here.
No way that you can see.
And my favorite part is...
...there's nothing you can do to stop it.
Not long ago,
I received reliable intel...
...on a major threat against Division...
...most likely an attack
on this facility.
l have reason to believe
it will occur within the next 24 hours.
I am putting Division on high alert.
As of now, nobody will be
allowed in or out without my approval.
I want to remind you this bunker
was built to withstand...
...a Soviet nuclear strike. We can handle
anything that is thrown at us.
That does not mean, however, that we
will sit back and play defense.
The sooner we identify the threat,
the sooner we eliminate it.
Call General Turgeson at STRATCOM,
tell him I need a satellite re-tasked.
-Where to?
-Directly above us.
I want to see everything
within a five-mile radius.
Establish a perimeter above ground.
Every person, every vehicle needs
to be accounted for.
Even if one of that farmer's Holsteins
wanders onto our land...
...I want it checked out.
Get to it.
Kenneth.
-Sean.
-We just did another perimeter sweep.
-Everything's clear.
-I need to speak with you.
I know you rejected the idea
of taking over Division.
-Mother, I don't have time for this now.
-Just hear me out.
What about dismantling it?
Oversee the reassignment of personnel.
-A temporary post.
-Don't want any post at Division.
Then a lot of people are going to die.
They're talking about
a clean sweep in there.
Complete liquidation of the facility.
Including all personnel.
Mass murder.
I shouldn't be surprised.
I'm going to try and talk them down,
but I'm already outnumbered 3-to-1.
-When are they thinking of doing this?
-Soon.
I called for a break, I don't know
how long I can hold them off.
-Where are you going?
-I may have a lead on Nikita.
How?
Through the tracker you placed on Alex?
Alex has nothing to do with this.
But it's a solid lead.
I need you now, Sean.
I'll do it. I'll dismantle Division.
Maybe after today,
it'll be all there's left to do.
ALEX:
Here.
NlKlTA:
Thanks.
[ALEX CLEARS THROAT]
-When's Michael getting here?
-Soon.
How are you two doing?
I don't know.
None of my business.
No.
I mean, I don't know.
Things were great,
we were a team again.
And then we hit a snag in Belarus.
-What?
-Belarus? When were you in Belarus?
Months ago.
Getting the first lady out.
-We were there at the same time.
-Who's "we"?
-Me and Pierce.
NlKlTA: Sean Pierce?
ALEX: We were taking out the dictator,
Ovechkin.
-What?
-Made it look like the bodyguard did it.
After Michael
snapped that dude's neck.
ALEX: That was Michael?
NlKlTA: Mm-hm.
-He almost got me killed.
-Well, your car bomb...
...almost got Michael and I killed.
So I think we're even.
-Ugh. Close call.
-Way too close.
[CHUCKLES]
Hate to interrupt you ladies
reliving your, uh, "spyjinks"...
...but I could use help
on our current mission.
Guardians didn't decide this
on their own. Percy's pulling the strings.
How? He's in complete isolation
in a glass cube at the bottom of the silo.
-He doesn't talk to anybody?
-Only me and Amanda.
-Any chance those two are teaming up?
-There's no way.
He would speak to me
instead of her. Like divorced parents...
-...and I'm the kid stuck in the middle.
-Never had you, uh, relay any messages?
-Or pass anything to anyone?
-No. I would never--
[SIGHS]
The money | used to get to Russia.
-Wait, you weren't funded by Division?
-No.
Amanda kept dangling the carrot,
and I got sick of waiting.
Percy gave me a cut
of a bank transfer.
An electronic bank transfer.
It was my fault.
MAN 1: What's the occasion?
MAN 2: The occasion?
Ah, most people
book a jump for a birthday...
...or an anniversary, or a midlife crisis.
Uh, we want to see the countryside.
Oh. You're gonna see New Jersey
like you've never seen it.
The place will almost look clean.
Anyway, I know you guys are licensed,
but I still gotta give you the safety spiel.
It's rare, but accidents do happen.
[BONES SNAP]
ROAN: You'll be staggered around
the perimeter in teams of two.
Keep your eyes and ears open. We'll hit
them before they even know we're there.
[CELL PHONE RINGS]
We're just about to board.
We should be taking off shortly.
Safe travels. See you soon.
l have a proposition for you.
We could save lives and ammunition
if you tell me your scheme.
And I'll make sure you get
that room with a view.
Better idea...
...you take me up to Operations...
...tell everyone there's been a little
mistake, and that I'm back in charge.
For your sake as well as mine.
You know Oversight's out to get you.
My relations with them might be
strained, but it is nothing I can't handle.
Oh, stop it. They played you.
I had them handled. Why do you think
they were so eager to get rid of me?
Maybe those private deals
you were doing.
They gave me no choice.
Nickel-and-diming me at every turn.
Trying to save a dollar
at the expense of national security.
-And your personal bank account?
-This was never about the money for me.
-What, then? The power?
-You wouldn't understand.
-Try me.
-Yeah? No.
No. It's like trying to explain
alpha behavior to a lap dog.
That's what you've been acting like.
No ambition,
no vision, no master plan.
Admit it, whether it's Oversight or me...
...you prefer the submissive position.
Release me. We join forces
and the boxes protect both of us.
It's just good business.
Oh, you know better than that.
You know this is personal.
Hey, Occupy Beach House,
you grab me a fresh one of these?
-You want ice?
-I prefer mine neat.
Hey, um, about the pills....
-Won't happen again.
-l'm sure it won't.
Thanks.
I'm gonna run to the store.
Want anything like bread, milk...
-...actual food?
-Been
I know you got lD.
[COMPUTER BEEPS]
Heads up. Someone at the gate.
It's Michael.
Wow. How's it going, buddy?
Wow. You know what they say, uh...
...whatever doesn't kill you
only makes you stronger.
-I thought that was a load of crap.
-Yeah, no kidding, heh.
Never hurt.
I didn't expect to see you here, Alex.
Yeah, me either.
-I heard about Russia.
-Yeah.
No place like home, right?
You know, I couldn't have gone
through it without Nikita.
I'm gonna let you two talk.
Yeah, I got, uh,
that thing to check on too.
[BIRKHOFF CLEARS THROAT]
Look, Michael, what I did in London...
...I did what I always do.
I, uh, made the decision for you.
-And, uh, heh--
-No, it's okay.
It was a good thing.
I needed some time.
I've gotten to know Max now.
He's a bright kid.
And he's starting to get to know me.
But even when we were--
I don't know, in the park,
kicking around a soccer ball...
...I found myself
looking over my shoulder...
wondering if Division
were to come after us.
Again.
And I can’t live like that.
I don't think anyone can live like that.
We have to end this fight that we're in,
once and for all.
But we beat them and then--?
Then what?
[ALL GRUNTING]
-Stop S
. to
-No! p-
You stop.
[G RU NTS]
Let's get him inside.
[ALEX PANTING]
Where's your backup?
Where's Division?
Birkhoff, give me the binos,
I'm going up on the roof.
BIRKHOFF: Damn it, we just got here.
You know how much ballistic glass costs?
Kevlar blinds. We are not leaving
a Navy SEAL alive...
-...if we're fighting off an alpha team.
-He's right.
They come busting through that door,
you're the first one we drop.
He's clean. No tracker, no comms.
If they were here,
they would have attacked already.
They're not out there, are they?
No tracker, no comms, no backup.
Nobody knows where you are.
And you don't want us to know that.
-How did you find us?
-He must've followed me.
It's the only thing that makes sense.
You used me, I know it.
How'd you do it?
Hmm?
SEAN: Unh.
ALEX: How?
He must have put a tracker in it.
No.
My father's watch?
[G RU NTS]
We gotta smash it.
Hey, hey, no, I can get it out. I can get it
out without smashing it. Give it to me.
Not even your mother's
gonna save you now.
His mother?
Yes, his mother is a member of
Oversight. He didn't tell you that?
Wow.
You are full of surprises.
I almost wish you'd tracked me down
with an alpha team instead.
That way I could use you
as a body shield.
Why didn't you bring them?
Hmm?
Why?
I didn't want you to get hurt.
[G RU NTS]
PERCY:
How did it ever get to this?
AMANDA: When you kept
Operation Sparrow from me.
That was for your own protection.
Or else you would have ended up
in the adjoining cube.
It's the truth.
No. Here's the truth.
We were a great team, you and l.
No one could have run
Division better than we did.
But you weren't satisfied.
You wanted more, so little by little...
...it became less about the country
and more about you.
It was always about me.
| created Division.
But it never would have thrived
without me.
I never denied your contribution.
Why didn't you treat me as an equal?
Because you weren't one.
l was the don,
and you were the consigliere.
l valued your counsel.
That's as far as it went.
Maybe in your eyes.
Oh, I know. You saw this
as a relationship.
And you encouraged the recruits
to view us as Mommy and Daddy.
But somewhere along the way
you deluded yourself...
...into thinking
you had feelings for me.
When all you ever loved
was my power.
We had something.
We had nothing. It couldn't happen.
Because you're incapable of love.
Just remember, Percy.
I gave you a chance.
[WHIMPERS]
MAN 1: Unh!
MAN 2 [OVER COMM]: Ground.
Ground.
Received word from Roan.
He advises we approach from the west.
I say we cap him. It's not like we can
ever let him go. He knows where we are.
We let SEAL Team Six-Pack leave?
He'll roll back at us with the cavalry.
Why kill him if we can
use him as a bargaining chip?
We've seen how far he's
willing to go for his mother.
Let's see how far his mother's
willing to go for him.
Oversight doesn't give a damn.
Push comes to shove,
they'd save their skins over his.
I say we keep him
tied up and leave him.
By the time anyone came here,
we'd be gone.
Are you kidding? This guy takes
a shot at us and we have to move?
This isn't Sean's fault.
BIRKHOFF:
What?
I wondered why a guy
like that was at Division.
Now I know. He'd do anything
to protect his mother.
Great, so he's Norman Bates.
Let's add him to the team.
He's wrong,
he doesn't deserve to die.
You want to know about my time
in Division, here it is:
Sean came to me asking for
the truth about Ryan Fletcher.
This guy has his doubts.
He's never heard our side of the story.
Maybe we should give it to him.
Convince him we're not the bad guys.
You really think
you can turn a Navy SEAL?
I think we have
some common ground.
If you want to make peace...
...you don't talk to your friends.
You talk to your enemies.
Before you consider
wiping out Division...
...there is the problem of Percy.
I hadn't thought of that. The
dead-man's switch on his heart...
...it'd upload the black boxes.
Not exactly a clean sweep if our
operation is exposed to the public.
If Percy's not exposed, neither are we.
Amanda's got him at the Titan 2 silo.
Sealed off from the bunker
so he's shielded from the attack.
If my son has agreed
to supervise a phase down...
...why are we even debating this?
Debating? We were
working out the details.
There has to be a better option.
Consider the alternative.
When we moved back into Iraq...
...first thing we did was
disband Saddam's army.
Those men, every one of them,
became our mortal enemies.
Killed thousands of our soldiers.
What would happen if we
tried to disband Division?
A group of the world's most highly
trained killers set loose on the country.
Is that what you want?
Kenneth, bring in the case, please.
Bruce...
...we have a duty.
To the citizens of this country.
To protect them against all threats,
foreign and domestic.
Division has become
a domestic threat.
[DOOR OPENS]
You look thirsty, soldier.
Can I get you some water?
Sean, this isn't an interrogation.
It's a conversation.
What do you know about me?
I know you're trying to kill my mother.
I've never killed a member
of Oversight. You have.
All Oversight does is fund Division...
...and we both know that place doesn't
deserve to be in business any longer.
Let me ask you a question.
What would have happened
if you had succeeded in killing us?
What then?
You think they'd let you go back
to your SEAL unit?
They know if they go after me,
I'll go to the authorities.
NlKlTA:
You would never get that far.
If they feel you're a danger,
not even your mother can help.
And if she objected too strongly,
she'd suffer the same fate as her son.
You've seen how Oversight
eats their own.
Sean.
You're protecting her
from the wrong people.
And who are you? The right people?
Nice to meet you.
Now let's try this again.
You look thirsty, soldier.
Can I get you some water?
[SIGHS]
[RINGING]
Senator Pierce, please.
MADEUNE:
Escape?
-You're certain about this?
AMANDA: He told me.
-He told you?
-Let's not forget who we ’re talking about.
What precautions are you taking?
Many. But I only need
your approval on one.
I'd like to place Percy into
a medically-induced coma.
What does that mean, exactly?
I'll administer a cocktail
that will make him brain-dead.
His dead-man's switch
won't be activated...
...because his heart
will continue to beat.
You're the one who wanted to keep him
conscious in the first place, Amanda.
Seems that was the wrong call.
You have our approval.
I'd ask you to hand me that, but....
Here. Just, um....
Beats waterboarding.
You had that coming, you know.
I know.
Sometimes you do things in these
situations you're not proud of.
-But you did it anyway.
-It wasn't like me.
ALEX:
That's why it worked.
How did you know
I'd meet Nikita in Russia?
-I didn't.
-So you wanted me to go after Semak...
...and you didn't tell Amanda?
It was what you wanted.
Why do you care?
Being posted at Division,
it's not my Choice, it's my duty.
If I couldn't leave, the least I
could do is help you get out.
You sure you wanna turn on that thing?
Relax, this place has more jamming
than a Santana concert.
I followed your progress in Russia
for a while, what happened?
[SIGHS]
I failed.
How?
I trusted someone I shouldn't have.
My mother.
You must know what that's like.
Wait a second, your mother is alive?
Semak keeps her out of sight,
strung out on pills.
She's his prisoner?
Not exactly.
You can'tjudge family
the same way you do other people.
Especially when they're in trouble.
Oh, yeah? How's that
working out for you?
So far so good.
[CHUCKLES]
Ahoy, shipwreck. You know
you got a bug in your phone?
-What?
[BEEPING]
[BEEPS]
Were they tapping my conversations?
They bugged you whenever you
had your phone on. Call or no call.
Amanda.
My mother told me Oversight
was unhappy with her.
Looking for new leadership.
If she listened...
Wait a minute, Oversight's
unhappy with Amanda?
That's great.
If you're okay with mass murder,
then by all means, enjoy the show.
What are you talking about?
Oversight is thinking about
executing Clean Sweep.
Wait, Clean Sweep?
What the hell is that?
Years ago,
when Percy created Division...
...Oversight insisted
he build in a failsafe...
...so he could erase
the evidence at any time.
There's a tanker of VX gas tapped
into Division's ventilation system.
Twenty minutes after Oversight pulls the
trigger, the place will be a mass grave.
Nobody would ever find it, because
nobody even knew it was there.
All those people.
All those people
you're trying to kill, right?
The hell we were.
That was us once.
They're not there by choice.
We wouldn't have killed them
if we captured their leaders.
Tie them to their crimes and send them
over to the authorities.
Why is Oversight doing this?
They sound panicked.
Black boxes, rogue agents,
failure to catch Nikita.
Thanks to you,
Division has become expendable.
My mother's trying to stop it. She's the
sole voice of dissent, has no leverage.
She's about to get some.
Birkhoff, we're gonna call Oversight.
-Thanks to you, we have the number.
-What are you gonna tell them?
I'll tell them if they trigger Clean Sweep,
we upload the black box.
It's something they can't clean.
-Ah, last time I checked, we don't have one.
-They don't know that.
And luckily we have
someone they trust.
You don't have to make that call.
|wi||.
[CLICKING]
Can you talk? Good.
I'm taking certain steps
and I wanted to make you aware...
...because it changes the plan.
[BRANCHES SNAPPING]
[BRANCH SNAPS]
[MEN GRUNT]
We're inside the perimeter.
Take a good look. These are
the last people that you will see...
...for along, long time.
Maybe ever.
Aren't you forgetting something?
The boxes are irrelevant.
You know what happens when I die.
You're not going to.
Pentobarbital slows
your metabolic rate...
...as well as your cerebral blood flow.
You may end up with some brain
damage, but I'll try to avoid that.
You know I never wanted this.
Then don't do it.
For old time's sake?
For yours.
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
Sean, you have to
get back here right now.
That depends entirely on you.
-Is he alive?
-For now.
I'm here. They got me.
Sean.
Listen. I told them about Clean Sweep.
They have other plans.
If Oversight implements
the protocol, they will...
...upload the contents of a black box.
What black box? You destroyed it.
SEAN: They managed to
get their hands on another.
I'm looking right at it.
Look, I know this isn't
the solution that you wanted...
...but it might be the one
that we have to--
[GUNFIRE]
What the hell was that?
[MAN GRUNTS]
[G RU NTS]
We have to get out of here now.
-Unh!
-On your knees!
Mother? Mother?
One must have a mind of winter
And been cold a long....
Who are we dealing with here?
I take orders from the same man
I always have.
Even after you threw him down a hole.
I recognize that voice.
It's one of the guardians.
That's why they were gathering.
Their target was Oversight.
Percy.
[EKG BEEPING RAPIDLY]
[RINGS]
Hello?
I'm going to make this very quick
because you don't have much time.
Release Percy, or you will eliminate
all the members of Oversight.
Sounds good to me.
Keep listening.
Failure to comply will result
in the activation of Clean Sweep.
They've got the button at hand,
as they always do...
...whiCh means now it's at my hand.
If you attempt evacuation...
...we trigger it immediately.
You wouldn't.
I told you, Division is mine
or no one's.
You had your chance.
MAN: There is nothing you can do
to stop this.
[English - us - SDH]